HASHTABLES

it is an abstract datatype
it detitcate how you operate not how u store data 
provides access to data using keys
key doest have to be an Integer consists of key/value pairs- 
datatype don't have to match 
keys can be in any datatype but at the backend they all converted to the integers 

optimized for retrieveal(when you know the key)
associated array is one type of hash table 


What is Hash Table?
A Hash table is defined as a data structure used to insert, look up, and remove 
key-value pairs quickly. It operates on the hashing concept, where each key is 
translated by a hash function into a distinct index in an array. The index functions 
as a storage location for the matching value. In simple words, it maps the keys with 
the value.


Hashing 
- maps keys of any data type to an integer 
- hash function map keys to int
- In java, hash function is Object.hashCode()
- Collision occurs when more than one value has the same hashed value

Hashing is a technique to convert a range of key values into a range of indexes 
of an array. We're going to use modulo operator to get a range of key values. 
Consider an example of hash table of size 20, and the following items are to be 
stored. Item are in the (key,value) format.


Load Factor 
A hash table’s load factor is determined by how many elements are kept there in 
relation to how big the table is. The table may be cluttered and have longer search 
times and collisions if the load factor is high. An ideal load factor can be 
maintained with the use of a good hash function and proper table resizing.


- tells us how a hash table is 
- load factor=#of items/capacity=size/capacity
- load factor is used to decide when to resize the array bakcing the hash table 
- Don't want load factor too low(lots of empty spcae)
- Don't want load factor too high (it will increase the likelihood of collisions)
- Can play a role in determining the time complexity for retrieval 


ADD TO A HAS TABLE BACKED BY AN ARRAY 
1. provide a key/value pair
2. use a hash fucntion to hash the key to an int value
3. store the value at the hashed key value- this is the index into the array

RETRIEVE A VALUE FORM A HASH TABLE
1. Provide the key 
2. Use the same hash function to hash the key to an int value(otherwise it will not work)
3. Retrieve the value stores at the hashed key value (in case of collison we need to seach 
through each and every element)


